- Hello, hello.
Hey Sarah, hey Tushar.
Welcome to Talk Python to Me.
- Hello.
- So good to have you both on the show.
You know, when I saw the Djangonauts project,
I think it was Brian Okken that had found it
and started talking about it on Python Bytes initially.
I'm like, oh, that is a brilliant idea.
I definitely, definitely need to talk
to the people behind it.
So, so glad to have you both here.
You both are playing multiple roles in this whole process,
which is fantastic.
So excited to dive into the Djangonauts.
- Amazing.
I actually remember when that came up
and we were all got excited and we're like,
how on earth did they find it?
So really cool.
- That entire show is just about finding stuff
that's interesting like that,
that maybe doesn't get a light shown on it.
And it's shining that light.
So awesome.
Glad, happy we're able to do it.
And we'll do it a little bit more today.
We'll make it the whole topic.
How's that?
- Awesome.
- Yeah, indeed.
Now, before we dive into all that,
let's just start with your story.
How do you get a programming?
What do you do these days?
Sarah, let's start with you.
- Okay, yeah.
So I am a Django developer.
That's probably not surprising.
I've been doing that pretty much my entire developer career.
It's about five years.
And about a year, two years ago,
I started getting involved in open source contributions
to Django core.
And now I'm part of the review and triage team,
which is a fancy name for saying like,
active core Django contributor group
or something like that.
And yeah, why I'm here today is now we've got
the mentorship program that I co-organize.
- Yeah, it's amazing.
What kind of apps do you work on,
have you worked on in Django?
Are you building APIs or what are you building?
- Yeah, good question.
So originally, it was pretty much
the full stack Django experience with Django templates.
And then I changed companies
and then it was with a React front end
and a Django REST framework API backend,
which is perhaps quite a typical setup really.
And I've changed again.
And now I'm a developer advocate for JetBrains.
So I no longer have to maintain a web application
so yeah, that's me.
- Yeah, the dev relationship can't go down at night, right?
You're not gonna get woken up on a weekend
'cause somebody upgraded the database
and now your app doesn't work anymore.
Now I'm a huge fan of JetBrains and what they're doing.
That must be a fun place to work, I imagine.
Yeah, indeed.
Dushar, how about you?
- Hi everyone, so I'm Dushar Gupta, I'm from India.
And I have recently graduated.
I graduated in 2023, so that was my first undergrad course.
And I currently work as a software engineer
at Samagra Governance and where we deal
with problems related to Indian governments.
So we work alongside with the Indian government
and create solutions that helps them govern better.
That's my day job.
And I've been involved with open source
from my sophomore year.
That was the place like, I was quite shocked seeing,
wow, there are people who are there to help you for free
and you get so high quality code reviews just for free.
So like, it was a full package for me.
And I got into some fellowships
and one of the fellowships, I'm not sure if you've heard
of it was Major League Hacking.
They ran a fellowship and in there I got introduced
to Django and to Carlton as well.
And I think from there only Django Nodes got me
as one of the contributors trying to get into the code
and they reached out for the pilot program.
So yeah, that's me and now I'm here.
- Oh, wonderful.
So you said you just recently started working
as a software developer professionally, is that right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, how are you liking it?
- I think it's pretty good with,
I've been always amazed with how much I can do
with my laptop and now that you have a job
which also kind of let you create some real impact.
I can literally see students in public schools
using our apps, using our APIs to get better
at their normal courses.
So yeah, it's been a complete amazing experience.
- Yeah, it's definitely fun.
I think the hardest part about software development
is getting your first job.
And once you have a little bit of credibility
and experience, then it's kind of chasing
what you're interested in.
But yeah, congratulations, that's excellent.
- Thanks.
- All right, well, let's dive in.
But let's blast off, huh?
Let's blast off with the Django Nodes, right?
And you really have leaned into this space
and astronaut angle here.
The website is django.space.
We have navigators and captains and django-nots and so on.
So yeah, very fun, very playful, I think.
And that's on one hand, it's like whatever,
what difference does it make?
On the other, I think it makes a difference, right?
Especially for people who are getting more into programming,
like it should sound fun because it is fun.
But I think it just, it draws people in.
It certainly did me when I heard about it, like I said.
- Awesome.
- Yeah, so Sarah, I'll let you introduce this whole program.
It's pretty neat, tell us about it.
- Sure, so I guess there's been a need
for more mentorship within the Django kind
of open source community for some time.
And we have already participated in some other programs
like the Major League Hacking and Google Summer of Code.
But sometimes we don't always retain people.
We have a variable success.
And there are still a bunch of people who appear
in our like help channels.
And they're always like, oh, I'm interested in mentorship.
Please help me, how do I get started, et cetera.
And it felt like there could be more
that we could be doing there.
And so this topic of we need a mentorship program,
we need a mentorship program came up a number of times.
And eventually we launched Django.net Space
as our answer to that kind of need.
We took heavy inspiration from the Kubernetes ladder program.
So the Kubernetes community also has
their own contributor mentorship program.
And that had like the concept of cohorts, for example,
which we've very much borrowed and things like this.
So what we wanted to do was to design something
that could be quite lightweight and sustainable
as we wanna respect everybody's time that's involved
and kind of appreciate that the open source experience
is a little bit in and out.
And you will, and that's kind of normal also.
So anyway, what we are kind of iterating on
is we now have a eight week program,
which actually the next program starts on Monday.
So we're just about getting everybody excited
and together for that right now.
And in the program, we have Django-naughts.
This is our term for mentees,
like the participants of the program.
And they will be assigned a navigator in like a team.
So there's about a team of three mentees
or Django-naughts with one navigator.
The navigator is a person who has
open source contributor experience
and some kind of background
that they can use to answer questions
and all this kind of stuff.
- Do they have to be a Django core developer
or do you have to be even a contributor to Django?
Or do they, you know, if I would say--
- That's a great question.
- I worked on Flask and I was really awesome at it,
but I also wanna help these folks over here.
I'm really good at open source,
but not so much Django contributor yet.
- So we have expanded the program.
So in the pilot, it was originally just Django core
that we were focusing on.
And now we have navigators
that have a focus on other packages.
So for example, Tim Schilling is one of the maintainers
of Django debug toolbar.
And Mark Walker is, I think he's the tech lead of Django CMS.
And so we are kind of incorporating that.
We wanna build a contributor base
to the Django ecosystem as a whole,
because all of the packages really do help
and support Django.
It's part of the real core value of Django as a framework.
Is the other open source packages that are around it.
And who knows whether we will expand even further later on.
But I think really the thing that's key
is having a little bit of open source experience.
And to be honest, a lot of it is transferable.
So a little bit around etiquette for reviews,
like don't at people all the time
and all this kind of stuff.
- At channel, I don't know.
- Things like that.
We then have one other role, which is the captain
and they add another layer of support to the program.
So these are, it's kind of like a supportive pastoral role
and they have more one-to-one sessions
with the Django notes to get to know them,
check that they're okay.
And if there was anything that kind of,
they wanted to talk about,
but they didn't feel comfortable mentioning it
in a larger group.
So we do have a discord chat
and we also have these weekly check-ins
that they have with the navigators and the team.
But the captains one-to-one,
if you've got something that you,
perhaps you've been really poorly
and you wanna talk about that
and anything that comes up in life
that perhaps you didn't feel comfortable
announcing to the world,
can come up in with your captain.
So they're really there to also normalize
any of the anxieties or feelings
that you have around working in public,
because if this is the first time you're doing that,
it's also a little bit vulnerable.
So yeah, also shout out to the captains.
- Yeah, awesome.
I think that's a pretty powerful way to organize this.
You've got a lot of support.
The thing that strikes me about this
is it feels a little bit like a bootcamp,
like a coding bootcamp.
I'm going to just take the next three months off
and dive into this,
but way more lightweight than that.
And also I think for other people
who might be thinking that,
it's worth pointing out that the goal
is not to teach people how to Django, right?
- Yes, 100%.
- Yeah.
Tushar, you wanna add to that as well?
You're shaking your head there.
- Yeah, so Django.NET is not a bootcamp.
I think we have been getting a lot of questions
around that as well,
that whether it's a bootcamp,
whether someone would be taught how to Django,
but it's not like that.
It's a, you can think of it as a program
which gives you the right support,
right people and right resources,
if you want to contribute to the core Django
or the Django ecosystem.
So it kind of brings in all the right people together
for a short time
so that you can get the needed lift off that you want
and get started with the Django.
- Yeah, so I guess the mental model people should have
is primarily the goal here
is to increase the contributors
to maybe Django,
maybe as you mentioned, Sarah, a little bit broader,
like maybe you could contribute to Tim's project,
the Django debug toolbar.
Just don't leave it on in production.
And those types of things, right?
Like in the broader ecosystem,
bringing people in to contribute to Django more broadly.
So it's specifically about creating people
who make those contributions.
- Exactly.
- And saying, I heard that programming is cool,
so I'm gonna quit my marketing job and do that.
- Exactly, and I think a thing that,
'cause what is success?
It's such an interesting question
because we get random commits from people all the time.
And really what, it's not necessarily
that there aren't going to be contributors to Django.
Django is quite a big package.
People will always come and suggest things
and give some code.
It's more also around that Django has a community behind it.
And the people who stick around longer term,
they feel like they're part of that community
and that they're part of something a little bit bigger
than just a commit in this cold,
heartless code base that's somewhere.
And so if we can get people to feel like,
actually there are a bunch of real, very helpful people
who are working on Django and other packages around it,
and that you could interact with these people.
And a lot of them are now my friends.
I think it kind of is trying to show
that there's a lot more to it
and there's this value you can keep getting.
And hopefully then people will stick around.
And I think it's more the,
if you can stick around and do sustainable contributions
over a longer period of time,
that builds up to something really quite huge.
And yeah, I think for me, I find that really exciting.
- Yeah, to me, Django,
more than almost any other sub community
of a programming world, right?
Not Python itself, but versus Flask, Lightstar, whatever.
Other web frameworks, ORMs, whatever.
It seems really to build a community around it
and not just technical excellence, right?
Like Django has a lot of technical attributes
that people are attracted to.
I would, a lot of the Django people I talk to
are attracted because of the community and the support
and they just want to be part of that thing.
That's amazing.
- Yeah, I think you can see that
in the Django-Nod program itself.
When I first got in, I thought,
meeting all the core contributors face-to-face,
having chats with them and seeing problems that they face,
managing open source and then their actual job
and then the Django contributions.
And now there's a program.
So I can see how much they're putting into what's
maintaining and building this community
and how much they care about it.
So it gives you a good inclusive feeling as well.
And I found it really good.
- Yeah, the only other,
I'm sorry if I'm leaving sub community out
that I just don't know,
but the only other part of Python
that I feel really has it as nailed as that
is the SciPy space.
It seems like the Jupyter and the scientific computing side,
there's kind of a big community there.
You've got NumFocus that actually funds a lot of that
specifically in that area, but it's pretty unique.
Speaking about funding,
I don't see a pricing on your page here.
What's the price?
- Oh, I wasn't prepared enough for this question.
If we compared ourselves to Outreachy
or Google Summer of Code,
they do actually have a sponsorship
where they do pay the,
it's almost like a scholarship that you're going to work on.
- Like an internship almost type thing, yeah.
- Exactly.
- A little internship.
- And we don't have that money.
We have been very generously given a grant
from the Django Software Foundation
to help us grow this program.
And we will be using that in different places
in order to do that.
But at some point we would like to gain sponsorship
from companies.
So if you're listening and that's something
that you think would be a good idea,
then please get in touch with the organizers.
That would be awesome.
- Yeah, Sarah, you should go on a podcast
and let the companies know.
- Yeah, that's a great idea.
- Well, I think that's awesome.
And it would be really,
I do want to encourage companies out there listening
who have connections back to Django
or just want to get in front of Django developers
for whatever reason to do that.
That would be awesome.
- But it doesn't cost money to participate as a--
- Oh, 100%, no.
- Django not, right?
- No, no, no.
I mean, yeah.
Back to what Tushar said at the very start
that he couldn't believe that you got these amazing quality
PR reviews from all these experienced engineers for free.
I think open source is this incredible resource
where you can get very usable real life programs
programming experience ads, yeah, generally for free.
So we don't charge people to be part of this.
- That's awesome.
And you can participate in very professional type of projects
without having to go through and getting a job
at a fame company or whatever, right?
You're just like, I'm going to be part of this,
this GitHub project.
And it looks like they have continuous integration
and code reviews and these experts and so on.
It's very cool.
It's pretty magical, open source.
Tushar, so originally you were a Django not,
and now you're coming back to pay it forward
a little bit afterwards.
So let's start by talking about your experience
going through the program.
Like, what were you thinking when you signed up for it?
What was it, and what was the day to day like,
and then what did you get out of it?
- So I think I got pretty excited when I saw this email.
So I got an email, I think a few months back
saying that there's a program that Django,
program named Django not that is going to be started.
It's a very small program.
We are going to be in teams of three to four
and whether are you interested or not.
So it was a complete yes for me that I'm totally interested.
And I reverted back to the email and after a few days,
I got a selection email that yeah, you are finally in.
I also shared it with some of my juniors
who are also trying to contribute to Django rest frameworks,
Django stubs and other projects to like,
here's the GitHub link of the program
that is going in a pilot mode.
Just go and try out.
So I think one of the other folks named Anwan,
she also got in, he's also now joining us as a captain.
And during my phase of the Django not,
I think the best part of this program
that I've talked about a lot of times before as well,
the core difference that has on contributing
to different projects and joining in as Django not
was you were actually meeting real people.
They were not just awesome GitHub usernames
that you know that you just talk over technically,
but you can really talk with them where they live,
how they look and just get on with what gets done.
What got them started with the project and how they do stuff.
So that gave me a kind of inclusivity,
a sense of belonging in the community that I know people,
I know Sarah, I know Sarah voice, I know Rachel,
I know a lot of people now, I know Tim.
And it got me like, it gave me some kind of motivation
to just be keep like, just be involved
irrespective of like, not lose my motivation
and just be with the program.
So during the Django not phase,
I contributed, I think a few PRs.
There's one that's on the accessibility part of Django.
I think it's in a work of progress.
So it's just getting in slowly and slowly.
There's some docs changes that I've done.
And then there's another one that is just in preview.
Another thing that I was getting out of Django not
was I know there is a focused group
that is communicating to me about my PRs
and how I can get better reviews.
If the reviews are getting delayed,
I was getting active response on like,
the team is currently busy
or maybe there's a holiday season going on.
Maybe there's a new Django major release that's going on.
So team is not getting enough time to currently review it.
So I didn't feel isolated or hosted out there,
but I knew like, there are people who are seeing this.
And the whole experience was very good.
Meeting a lot of new people and it was just fun.
So that's how Django not worked for me.
- Yeah, excellent.
And you're going on to become a captain
for the next cohort, right?
So you're doing the one-on-one mentorship side of things.
- Yeah, I think I wanted to...
So I asked when the Django not program
was about to be ended, I asked Sarah,
there's another Sarah.
So I asked her, is there any way I can still be around?
And like, can this Discord group be continued
or are we going to just shut it now
as the program has ended?
So she told me that, no, we are going to have another cohort
and you can come in as a Django not captain if you want
and just meet other people.
And I mean, I was like, why not?
Like, meeting a lot of new people.
And there are a lot of people from that country
that I'm from.
So that got me even more excited
that there were folks out there that I didn't knew of
and now I know them.
So yeah.
- Yeah, that's excellent.
Probably you're more likely to go to conferences
where there's Django people meeting
and just generally be more part of the community, right?
Not just this.
- Yep.
Yeah, I completely agree.
I think just the part Django not nailed completely
is like doing one-on-ones, video calls.
It just gives you some sense of belonging.
It's great to see people one-to-one and talk with them.
So it's great.
- Yeah, I mean like,
that you always notice it that after a DjangoCon,
so there's DjangoCon US and DjangoCon Europe
happens pretty much every year.
We just had a DjangoCon Africa for the first time,
but we don't have a DjangoCon Asia
or a DjangoCon South America.
And there are regions that don't have this opportunity
of a conference each year that the community
really gets together and that you meet people.
And whenever you see the conference
and you see people afterwards, they're buzzing
and everyone's so excited to have gotten together
and to really reignite that kind of community feeling.
But it's not accessible to everybody.
And it's really nice for us to try
and recreate a little bit.
It's not the same as a DjangoCon, of course,
but a little bit of that Django magic.
If we can bring a little bit of that experience
to a wider group of people, I think it's really special
because I think that's really what Django is about for me.
- Yeah, for every person that is pretty close
or pretty accessible to a local meetup
or a regional conference, there are many, many people
who work by themselves, live far from those places,
and these types of things serve a really important
connection to the community that way.
Yeah.
All right, Sarah, what about time commitments?
What's the day-to-day look like?
12 hours a day, what do you all do?
(laughing)
- Yeah, it's constant.
Right, so that's one of the things
we really try to design also.
We have, as a Djangonaut, it is self-managed
and self-guided.
So with the amount of time commitment,
we're saying it's maybe four hours a week,
but it can really vary.
So if you did two hours or maybe one week,
you decided that you were gonna spend your whole Saturday
or whatever, it can really be driven by that participant.
We're not going to be there with a whip saying,
please do more or do less.
Actually, the do less would be a concern.
I mean, we do want to make sure that this is sustainable.
And if we saw people, I don't know,
constantly working on something
without ever taking a break,
then that would be something that we would want the captains
and the navigator to go in and check that they're okay
and that they know it's not the end of the world
and that they can take a break.
- Yeah, that happens to me when I get really
just super into something, usually some new technology.
I'll just be working, working on it, take a break.
Wow, I'm hungry.
Oh, it's 'cause I haven't eaten for eight hours.
What's going on?
But to me, it's kind of cool to get lost that way,
but you shouldn't set it as an expectation, right?
You're like-- - Exactly.
Yes, exactly.
And people work really differently.
And if this is sustainable and it works for you,
then that's completely fine.
But if it was that somebody said,
oh, I will probably finish this ticket,
and they said this in their weekly meeting,
and they thought, oh God, I have to finish it
by the next weekly because I said I would
or something like that, that's not what we expect.
And that's completely fine.
So yeah, maybe it's roughly four hours a week
for Janganots.
Tushar would be a better person to ask that.
(Tushar laughs)
- Yeah, you've recently been there.
How was it?
- I think when I started Django,
when I started with the program, I was quite pumped.
I went through all the trash tickets on the track
and made an ocean dock of tickets
that I wanted to take a look at and try,
but I soon got burned out.
Then I think I had a session with Lily.
I told her that I think I'm getting a bit burned out.
So she told me that you can relax a bit.
And she told her way of contributing to Django as well.
So she told me that she has some burst of sprints
where she contributes.
So it's like two PRs in a month,
and then another month there's no PR.
So kind of works like that.
But yeah, I think there's no pressure as such
for Janganots to work,
that they have to make a PR,
that they have to make contributions regularly
so they be part of the program.
Everyone can work at their own pace.
And you can also keep communicating with your navigators
and your captains to let them know what's working for you,
what's not working for you.
And I think it's a pretty chill environment out there.
So you can just figure out what works for you.
So for me, I think burst of sprints worked for me.
So I used to, so if I take a ticket,
I make sure that I get something going on,
and then I take some break,
and then I come back to Django,
and I keep context switching
between different open source projects.
So that was how I got myself to the program.
Yeah.
- Excellent.
Yeah, if you context switch too frequently,
you kind of just never really get going.
You gotta be, save a little focus
and a little deep work on one thing.
Sarah, Tushar mentioned choosing tickets to contribute to.
You know, one of the things that's challenging
about projects like Django or any other project
that's been around that long with that many people using it
is it's really complicated.
And any part that you change
can have really wide ranging consequences, right?
You don't wanna take down Instagram
just for a commitment, for a contribution, right?
So what I'm getting at is it can be hard as a beginner
to find the right issues to work on.
How do you navigate that?
- So it is definitely a challenge,
and it's also a challenge to answer the question
because it's really dependent on the individual
and what are your goals.
So if you wanna like achieve the,
I got a PR merged into Django batch, for example,
that's one potential goal.
Or perhaps you're going,
no, I want to be able to have my name again,
like when I see when Django 5.1 goes out
and at the top there's like the major features
and like I want to have been a part of that
or something like that.
Then it's kind of like a different dynamic to it.
And so if you were one of the individuals
where you don't really mind,
you just want to contribute where you can
and maybe start small, for example,
just to get something in,
then there are different strategies to go about that.
But the best strategy, in my opinion,
is it's really common in,
I would say open source in general,
that people come along and they submit a PR
that they've done a good piece of work
and it gets a PR review
and maybe there were a couple of things
that needed changing.
And then this person, for whatever reason, they vanish.
(laughing)
Probably because of life or whatever it is.
Or they just had enough energy to do that.
And that's completely fine.
And they didn't care about it enough
to do extra bits or whatever.
- It could be they were trying to make Django
do something and they decided,
you know what, I'm gonna choose some other framework.
- 100%.
- Even some other language and they just left
and they're not gonna come back and polish
'cause you ask for reviews for better documentation.
- Exactly.
Exactly.
And for example, and you've hit the nail on the head
with that because for Django to accept anything,
it needs tests, it needs docs.
And so the code itself could be completely valid already.
It could be like the perfect solution
for the issue you're trying to solve.
But if it was missing the tests and the docs,
it wouldn't be accepted.
And so what happens is, usually what happens,
is after a certain period of time,
the fellows might do a ping to say,
ah, do you still wanna work on this or something?
And then after another period of time,
they close it because it's gone quiet, basically.
And so there are a bunch of these kind of unfinished
starting points that you can swoop in, take that,
and you've already got some code
and it gives you good context with like,
'cause sometimes people will share a ticket and they go,
I don't even know what file I should be in
to start to do this work.
Whereas if you took a PR that's got some code,
you know what file, what function,
you know what's going on there,
and you've got a lot more immediate stuff.
- Yeah, yeah.
You're like, this basically works.
It needs some polish, maybe a little optimization
and the supporting stuff.
Like that's a way smaller project
than imagine something you could add.
- Exactly. - Out of thin air, right?
- Exactly, 100%.
And then you can take those and you can be that person
that pushes it over the line.
And obviously you credit the original author,
you can put them in as a co-author of the commit
and thank them.
But it's a really good place to build from there
'cause then you can slowly get more context
about what does the process of doing a PR to Django
even look like?
Because you're gonna go through the PR review
and you will learn as you do it,
you'll learn how the documentation works,
you will learn how the tests work
and all that kind of stuff.
The contributing docs are quite extensive and scary.
And it takes a while to absorb all that information.
And for me personally, I have to do it
to like really learn it.
So I would say that's how I would suggest people get started
if that was your goal.
- Yeah.
- But, and this is how I got started,
but I would say it makes you like you're so scattered.
So if I was trying to gain a really good,
solid understanding of Django,
I have a really weird picture that's being built
that I'm only getting like one pixel at a time
in very random spots.
And so I can't--
- Maybe really deep down in the code base,
you know, I just connected, yeah.
- I suddenly understand that one thing over there
that's really random,
but then this other completely unrelated thing over here.
And so I'm not gaining like a depth
of a technical understanding of one section as a whole.
So if you were someone who wanted to have that star feature
that you wanted to have your name against,
then really you should go and pick a section of Django.
So if you went into the ticket tracker called track,
you can filter by components, so by an area of Django.
- ORM or admin or something like that, right?
- Exactly like this, exactly like that.
And then look at just the tickets for them
and they will be your practical way
to get that kind of information.
But there's also sometimes,
there used to be a conference called Django under the hood
and you might find that there was a talk about forms
or something like this that's maybe relevant
and you should build up your knowledge
in like a much longer term perspective
that you're focusing on this area.
And there might even be like other packages
that are related, so perhaps for example,
David Smith is also a major contributor to Django
and he is coming from like a forms perspective
and he is also a maintainer of Django Crispy Forms,
which gives them a lot of extra context
with how people use forms in Django.
And so he can look at tickets and use that extra way
in that knowledge and his opinions
whenever people are discussing things.
So that's a bit more of like a in-depth deep dive approach,
but it might not be the quickest way
for you to get your first commit.
- Yeah, you wanna get that first early win or whatever.
I really like the idea of reviving a stale PR,
that's pretty clever.
All right, Tim chilling out,
audience has a quick question for you Tushar.
Did you ever run into a wall in the Django code base?
How did you handle that?
It's a very large, very old, so I imagine parts are hard.
I know I get stumped when I try old tickets.
- Yeah, I think one of the tickets,
one of the issues that are currently out there
was an accessibility ticket.
So basically we want to increase the accessibility
of the Django admin.
And this is something that I also found it quite interesting
because it was a very interesting problem
to build a CI/CD pipeline that will take care of,
that will take care of accessibility.
- When you say accessibility, are you talking multilingual?
Are you talking screen reader?
What are you talking?
- So Django serves a very large diverse audience
and there could be people who are disabled.
There could be people who are colorblind.
So you have to take care of putting out a software
that also caters to the needs of those people as well.
So accessibility is, yeah.
So basically there's a lot of thing in that.
There's a specification that's out there
to define what is a good accessible software.
And you can have a CI/CD that checks your project
with that software, with that specifications.
So I think that was a very open-ended ticket
and I faced a very big wall on how to approach that,
what all is needed there.
And the thing that I did was I reached out
to my navigator and captains when I was in the program
and they actually got me connected to the right people
and the right person to ping.
So the track, they assigned the right people in the track
that should have been in the ticket.
And I think someone from the Django accessibility team
came in, they gave me weekly updates
on what's the current status of this ticket,
what are we planning.
They told me that this is going to be a low-chain ticket.
It will spread out over a month
because we are planning on how to do this correctly.
And I think that's how I was able to get past that.
The ticket is still open.
There's another package that has been abandoned
but we are trying to bring it in the Django ecosystem,
I think.
So I think Mark is working on that.
So that's how I basically get past the paywall,
like the ball of getting the contribution.
And I think most of the time navigators were very helpful
because they have a lot of contribution
and they also helped me pointing to the right location,
where should I look to?
So I think one of the times, I think I reached out to Sarah
to just know why this specific ticket was closed.
And I was not able to find what went wrong
so that this PR was reverted.
And she pointed out to the right,
like the backtracking PR that you should take a look at.
So this is how I generally just reach out
because that's what the program is for.
- Yeah, that highlights a super big advantage
or benefit of it, right?
A normal contributor can't just make all these connections
or even necessarily know who was involved
in the original effort.
Why was it shut down?
Is it something the project doesn't want
or did people abandon it or none of that is accessible
from the less accessible from the outside.
- Yeah.
- Yes, I completely agree.
So people have been listening.
Maybe they're pretty excited to be part of it.
Do you have another cohort coming along?
When's the next one?
- Okay, so we are just starting the first of the year
that was starts on the 15th of January.
So if you want to,
if this is the first time you've heard about it,
unfortunately you're-
- Too late.
- It's too late for that one, unfortunately.
That one's pretty much left the station, but-
- Well, I have a benefit for you
with a little bit of podcasting time travel.
So this probably won't come out for six weeks.
- Oh.
- So on the main audio,
although it's already on YouTube for folks listening there.
So it'll be a little closer to the start of the one
after if there's gonna be a third.
- I see.
Okay, interesting.
Thank you for that tip.
Then the best place to check at any point,
if you wanted to check if there is,
if we're accepting applications for a session
is you could go to the Djangonauts space website
and then click on sessions.
And when you click on sessions, you will see, exactly.
Right now you can see that the session that we have is,
if you scroll a bit further down on the screen,
we're sharing this session
and you can see the latest information of the applications,
when it starts and all the details
about that particular session.
And so whenever we agree to do a new session,
that will appear on our website
and there will be this apply button essentially
when applications are open.
So in six weeks time, that might be the case
that we are accepting new applications.
There is also a interest form that we have
and so again on,
there's, yes, if you click back on sessions at the top,
there is a join us secret button.
Yeah, exactly.
A top tip and here you can send us your email
and what this just means is we will send you an email
as soon as applications open for the next session
and then you will be the first to know.
The other thing is we're on social media,
we're on X and Mastodon and LinkedIn.
So followers on all of those places
and we will also post there for everything when that's.
- Yeah, definitely.
And I'll put those in the podcast show notes
so people can click on them and find all these things.
It also seems you all are on YouTube.
What happens over on YouTube?
- We are on YouTube and amazingly we gained some followers
before we've even really done anything,
but this is our plan.
So also in a session,
we have a couple of guest speakers who come
and the Django Notes can,
they will usually talk about some topic
and they've got some particular experiences
that they can share
and that you have a little bit of a Q&A with them.
So in the pilot session, both Marish and Natalia
who are the two Django fellows,
they had a session with our Django Notes
and we record these sessions.
And what we want to do is we want to publish these
on YouTube to make that available to everybody
because there's quite interesting information
that gets shared in these talks
and the whole aim of open source
is to share information really.
So that is the main plan for the YouTube channel,
but we're not there yet,
but maybe by the time the podcast is published,
there will be loads of you.
- You got a few weeks to work on it.
That's cool.
So people can, they can smash the subscribe
and crush the bell over there?
- Absolutely.
- Yeah, that'll be cool.
So how many people are in the next cohort,
the 2024 first cohort?
- Yes, there is 18 Django Notes.
So we've really scaled up since the pilot.
Yeah, so that's six teams.
Whereas last time we had two teams, so quite a few more.
- Yeah, that's cool.
What's the cross team story, right?
Like I can imagine, say like some kind of startup accelerator
where there's groups
but sometimes they get together and present to each other
what they're building, what they're doing.
Like, is there something like that
where the teams cross pollinate or whatever?
Yeah.
- We have, you're in the same discord
and we have channels that are available to everybody.
And we are trying to achieve both a community feel
and that you can work with other people.
So we do have a life channel where people share things
about, I don't know that they went on a run
and it's a little bit more around the humanizing
the individual and all this kind of stuff.
But there are channels which are about works work, I say
but contributing specifically.
So on tickets and people can share the work
that they're doing and say, hey, I want some input on this
or does anybody wanna work together with me on that?
And there's nothing stopping a Django knot
from working with another Django knot
who's in a different team.
The team is just a structure to give you a group
that is manageable for one human to look after.
And for you to have a meaningful discussion
in a smaller group.
- You can see a big, it just becomes a bunch
of anonymous people that happen to be in the same program.
Yeah.
William out there has an interesting question.
As you talk about adding more than before,
what are your plans on scaling this?
And what do you feel are limiting factors?
- That's a really awesome question, William.
So limiting factors are usually getting mentors
who agree to do it at the same time.
And it's interesting as to whether we continue
to organize it, that it's a session
that everyone is there at the same time
or whether we allow it to no longer be a single cohort
and that somebody could be like, right,
there's two people who are available
from this state to this state
and therefore they can look after a few Djangonauts,
for example.
That could be an option for us to prevent
this larger cohort because it means
that we're trying to get a group of, I don't know,
eight volunteers who can all do this time period
at the same time.
And that's a challenge.
And we did struggle to, we got a reasonable amount
of people raise their hands to be mentors,
but we could always do with more of them.
So if anyone wants to do that,
we would love to hear from you.
So that's another thing that kind of limits that scale.
And the other thing is, is we are learning
the challenges as we go.
So fortunately we haven't had any issues yet.
We have, for example, a code of conduct
and there is a way that people could report something
that we should be aware of.
And we haven't had that report yet.
Touch wood, it will never happen.
But there's some things that we,
it will take a few iterations for us to really test,
stress test our processes and check that this is gonna
be capable of scale, but yeah, who knows?
We're not there yet.
- Well, you know what, one positive feedback loop
is people like Tushar who went through it,
but now are supporting its growth, right?
- Yeah, definitely.
- Yeah, and a question for you from Sarah Tushar's.
I saw multiple, or at least one person out in the audience
saying, "Hey, I'm gonna be in the next cohort."
So do you have any advice as a former Djangonaut
for new ones who are about to get started?
- Yeah, I think one of the important advices
would be to have a lot of fun.
You can contribute to Django,
but also you'll make a lot of good connections.
So also be around in the Django Discord,
Django Djangonauts Discord, interact with people,
talk with each other, attend the sessions,
just get to know them a lot.
Because the three weeks, the amount of time
that you'll part of the Django program will be,
they'll focus on getting you left off,
but you should plan on making this program more sustainable.
So just try to be around,
keep talking with different people and have fun.
- Good advice.
All right, let's round this out with,
what are the benefits for the people who are participating?
And I suppose also navigators and captains.
One thing I see here that would be really a bonus
is just the edge it gives you in working
in web development in Python
as a job opportunity going forward.
If you say, yes, I know how to do a database query
with the Django ORM, please hire me.
That's one thing.
It's another to say, I added that feature
that you're excited about.
Can we talk about my position?
Okay, everyone else is off the table,
as long as you're a decent fit.
That all of a sudden just puts you in a different
stratosphere, I guess, sticking with the theme.
So maybe you all could speak a little bit to
advantages beyond just, I want to contribute to open source
and have the badge or whatever it is.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I think my first job was basically like no interviews,
just based on open source profile.
The company or the current company that I'm part of
also have some open source products.
So I was just involved with that.
And the job was just a simple,
like one-on-one kinds of conversations
on whatever projects or different opposite contributions.
- Okay, it's a shark.
It seems like you're doing this for free.
How about we pay you to do this?
Okay.
You convinced me.
- Yeah, so yeah, that's what actually happened.
So I think you get a lot of,
I mean, contributing to open source,
you get a lot of visibility.
There are a lot of people that reach out to you.
And I think the best part of it is,
as I said it before, you just grow compoundly.
There's no stopping when you get started with this stuff.
Initially, there's a barrier that you have to push
before you get started.
But I think Django will do that work for you
to help you push that initial barrier,
get the inertia moving.
And then it's all just a good walk down the path.
- Yeah, and to add to that,
even beyond getting your first job
or getting your foot in the door,
if you're with certain roles,
you might come to a point where
there's usually this learning curve, right?
Where at the start you learn loads
and then it really levels off and you've become efficient
and you kind of know the processes
and you've been asked to make
yet another API endpoint for something.
And it's kind of fairly,
you're not learning so much as you were in the early days.
- Go with me here.
What we need is we're gonna need a grid
of the things in the database
and I need you to be able to edit in the...
Okay, like the five other ones I just spoke.
Got it, okay.
- Exactly.
- That kind of thing, yeah.
And I also get it that,
and companies don't necessarily want you
to experiment too much
because experiments are risky and all this kind of stuff.
So depending on when you work,
maybe you've got lots of opportunities
to learn lots of new stuff,
but some people will be in a position where
actually they go,
oh, I don't feel like I've learned anything this year
or something like that.
And I think open source or contributed to Django particularly
like it's so big
and there's so much there
that you can really learn about if you want to.
And completely with no pressure,
at your own pace and with really friendly people.
And so there is,
if you engage in that,
as a practice,
it can also give that you
the joy of programming again,
that you can go,
you know what, this is a really tough problem
and I can really think about this
and it's not like a problem that's screaming at me
that needs to be fixed straight away or whatever.
But, you know,
and I think there's lots of those opportunities in there too.
- Absolutely.
That's always a struggle is,
you get to work for some company and they're like,
yeah, we're not changing that.
That works.
We're not messing with that.
We're not ready for Python 2.7 yet.
We're still on 2.6.
So let's just calm down there.
(laughing)
Okay, sure.
I see some other people asking,
is this a Discord?
This is a private Discord for the cohort.
It's not something public that others can participate in.
- That's true.
There is a Django Discord that is public to everybody
and I would recommend joining there.
So please do.
And a lot of people are in both.
And if you dropped into the
contributing getting started channel
or the contributor discussions channel
and you were to talk about a ticket,
it's very likely that I and other Django contributors
are going to engage with you directly.
So there's that.
But the Django.space Discord is designed for the cohort
to give people a little bit of a smaller community feel
and allow them to feel comfortable
sharing the pictures of their dogs and things like that
when they're very new to this.
So yeah, that's how it's working.
- Excellent.
All right, let's wrap this up really quick
with just one sort of broader thing.
Maybe there's many other communities out there listening.
I wish we had a not,
some kind of astronaut type thing for us.
What advice would you give to other open source communities
that maybe wanna have this type of thing?
- Give it a go.
Really try it out.
I think we're very happy for people to take,
I mean, all of our documentations are on a GitHub.
It's all open source.
Please take it and make it your own.
You can use different names.
And keep in touch with us and tell us what works for you
and what you've changed and what's better.
And yeah, for us, we wanted to start off
with something quite lightweight and basic.
And when we started, for example,
we, okay, we had a name, but no one knew who we were
'cause we just invented it.
And for example, with Tashar,
we reached out to some individuals.
So in the past, when we'd seen some people be interested,
those were the first people we contacted.
So you can start really small, really basic.
You don't have to have a launch
where you're accepting applications
'cause when you have applications,
you need to figure out
what does an application even look like
and then how you're gonna review it.
- Right, what are the criteria?
Yeah, all that. - 100%.
So start small and then you can build it out
in a way that works for you and see how it goes.
- All right, well, excellent.
I think that's probably it for all the time we have today,
but I wanna congratulate you both
on this really cool community you built
and are building.
Final call to action, people are excited about Django Nauts.
What do you tell them?
- Oh, just, yeah, followers on our social media
and please do apply when we have sessions.
We really, really appreciate all the applications
that we receive and mentors are always wanted
and needed, so get in touch.
Yeah, please.
- Yeah, of course.
Go to the session section and click join us
and fill out the form if you think you might
in the future want to be part of it, right?
Indeed.
All right, Sarah Tushar, thank you for being on the show
and thanks for sharing your project.
It's very great.
- Thank you, Mike. - Thanks, Mike.
- You bet, bye.